How did our historians read civilizations' philosophies and peoples' life?
and how did they affect analyzing history, countries and societies?!
The great figure Ibn Khaldoun was born in Tunisie, his father taught him and he could memorize Quran.
He studied at Zaitouna university in Tunisie and University of al-Qarawiyyin in Fes, Morocco
Also, in al Azhar University in Egypt, they were the most famous universities that time.
Ibn Khaldoun used to be a jurist and a judge in Egypt. Also, he was an A class diplomat, as he helped to resolve international conflicts that time.
Ibn Khaldoun was famous that he is the main founder of sociology and that he had put theories still considered references till now.
He had included them all in his book, lessons from history of Arabs, Barbars and Ajams and who ever lived that time with authority.
that's is famous for Ibn Khaldoun introduction
It includes the extract of his opinions about , inhabitedness, history, sociology, economics and human society conditions
This book is considered the most famous one for that figure, it took almost 4 years and it has got an encyclopedic way
It's easy to notice that it goes on an accurate systematic way; he tackles the subject in an introductory, 6 different chapters and a conclusion.
He has got a unique philosophy; so, he sees history apparently as news about countries and times.
But internally it's an insight, quest and reasoning for beings and principles
and a know how for events and their reasons
The west had appreciated Ibn Khaldoun great input, and he is one of the most translated to Islamic figures.
George Marcy says:" Ibn Khaldoun introductory is considered one of the deepest writings done by a genius human.
Eve La cost says: the abnormal Ibn Khaldoun's announces history's birth as a self centered subject.